---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: "On the Way to Kong Kong - Intro"
category: Travel
tags: [ 'WayToHK' ]
---

Well haven't posted here in awhile, good to be back. After Moldova last summer,
I continued traveling across Europe, from Istanbul up to Copenhagen then down
through Switzerland to Italy. Overall, it was fifteen countries in about five
weeks. Soon after, I started as a full-timer at Jane Street Capital! Work has
been great, and I was even able to visit the United Kingdom and Ireland back in
December as part of a business trip to our London office. This trip is actually
"on the way" to two weeks at our Hong Kong office, thus the series' title.
Daily dim sum breakfast, here I come! One downside of full-time life is the
limited number of vacation days relative to undergrad years, but I thankfully
managed to save up enough vacation for this one week trip in March, basically
it's Spring Break all over again!

Originally, a friend I met in North Korea (now that's a sentence you don't often
hear) and I were hoping to visit Iran. We had even started the visa application
process with a local tour company.  Iran is, like North Korea, one of the few
states where US citizens must go through an official tour company to visit the
country. Turkmenistan and Bhutan are also in this category. And yes, they are
both also high on my list (Aaron and I had attempted to visit Turkmenistan with
all its Gates of Hell glory on our
[trip last summer]({{ "/tags/soviet.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
but were stymied by the visa policies
of capricious authoritarian regimes). The visa process was overall rather
confusing, especially as we were cutting it quite close. There was unfortunately
little information on the internet and even from our tour guides.
As an aside, while I read great things
about [Key2Persia](http://en.key2persia.com/home) on the internet,
I found my contact there to be
incredibly unhelpful. They seemed to have a tenuous grasp of how to use email,
and inexplicably told me and Albert to report in person at the nonexistent
Iranian Embassy in Washington DC to apply for visas...

Of course, this all turned out to not matter in the end.
America in its infinite wisdom elected this wonderful man
[Donald Drumpf](http://www.donaldjdrumpf.com/)
in November. And he chose
to roll out this glorious visa ban in January, to
\#MakeAmericaSaferAgain...or something.
Unsurprisingly, foreign governments weren't all to happy about this.
And in particular, Iran decided to
[ban travel from United States in response](http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-trump-immigration-iran-idUSKBN15C0NR).
We had thankfully not purchased any flights,
as I'd learned my lesson last year from purchasing my flight out of Ashgabat
before our visas were approved. So, it was time to find a new plan. Eventually,
we settled on Morocco and Senegal, with a 24 hour stop in Dubai on the way to
Hong Kong for me. On the way back from Hong Kong, I also managed to squeeze in
36 hours in Seoul. I'll (sadly?) no longer be that weird guy who's been to only
North Korea! I was of course bummed about Iran, but hopefully things stabilize
sometime soon so I can make it there. Meanwhile, I was of course excited to be
traveling again, especially for my first trip to Africa!

A couple of weeks later, armed with a yellow fever vaccine and anti-malarial
drugs, I was headed to Morocco via Royal Air Maroc! My doctor very helpfully
spent five minutes reading aloud all the possible side effects of the former,
e.g. "you have a 1 in 400,000 chance of developing terrible and permanent
neurological damage!" Thankfully, as I write this, I seem to have escaped the
worst, *knocks on wood.*

